We Begin the day with the biggest
Hospital in Gaza on the verge of
flatlining Israel's war against Hamas
has entered its sixth week and hospitals
inside Gaza are now on the front lines
unprecedented Israeli rocket attacks
forced tens of thousands to flee their
homes with nowhere to go many are
Sheltering inside hospitals and that
includes the alifa hospital the largest
inside the Gaza Strip doctors have
described the situation inside as
catastrophic with no power patients are
reportedly dying surgery is taking place
under the light of cell phones outside
Israel says that its soldiers have
reached the gates of alifa we have more
in this
report stitching up a head wound by the
light of a mobile
phone doctors in hospitals in Northern
Gaza are struggling to save
patients
here too at the alifa hospital they're
running out of fuel water and medical
supplies and a vulnerable to the ongoing
Israeli air strikes in the
area Hospital under under fires the last
example is chifa Hospital ICU there is
another Private obstetric Hospital was
targeted directly today and two of our
colleague who are specialist in
obstetric and Gynecology were killed to
tonight there is no service for
Pediatric patients in the Northern
Area Israel denies targeting civilians
and says that this footage is proof that
its military provided the alifa hospital
with 300 L of fuel for its
generators but that it was rejected by
Hamas we offered actually uh last night
to give them enough fuel to operate the
hospital operate the incubators and so
on because we have we have obviously no
battle with patients or with civilians
at all uh and I think every civilian
death every dead baby is a tragedy but
that tragedy should be placed squarely
at the responsibility of Hamas that is
keeping its military installations
inside hospitals its command posts
inside hospitals inside schools inside
unra un facilities and so on the
director of alifa has denied rejecting
the fuel which he says would not have
been enough to power the hospital's
generators for even 1
hour the worsening situation in Northern
Gaza is forcing thousands to flee
southwards mostly on
foot even some health workers have made
the decision to
leave the situation last night was very
tense very extreme the bombing targeted
schools and hospitals I work for the
office of the Ministry of Health at the
hospital yesterday the Israeli Army
bombed the hospital where I work that's
why today I did not go to work or
fulfill my duties
fled tens of thousands have already fled
the ongoing missile strikes in ground
operation Israel is coming under
increasing International pressure to
minimize civilian suffering in Gaza
so what is happening inside alifa
hospital tonight to find out I spoke by
phone with the head of surgery at Aliva
Dr Maran
abusada yes it is inside the hospital no
one can get outside or income inside
especially using the ambulances no
ambulances getting from the shifa or
coming to the shifa hospital we are in
total stage in MO in most of the
building no electricity no fuel no water
for even personal use or no uh no food
also and we are having here in this
hospital now around 600 injured people
who are located distributed in the H of
the department plus to that we having
now who are temporary plac from thereal
IC unit we are having babies 36 babies
are alive and they are blessed in not in
a good atmosphere they are blessed in
one on the main surgical theater we have
to treat them because the Israeli why we
moved from the Nal unit because the
Israeli bombarded the oxygen generator
and due to lack of oxygen and loss of
oxygen we lost the three lives of this
babies and also if we would like to run
this generators and oxygen we need to
maintain first of all and secondly we
need the fuel to run the generators
there and also in addition to that we
have resident in in the kidney dialysis
unit patients who are having kid in
their stage renal failure and they have
to put them on the machine for uh kidney
dialysis unfortunately for the third day
we could not succeed to run the machine
because we need electricity and we need
a disolated water and we cannot do this
in
Shas that was Dr Marwan abusada there
head of surgery at alifa hospital
speaking with me
earlier well I'm joined now by the
Middle East analyst Nathan thr Mr th is
a former director of the Arab Israeli
project at the international crisis
group he's also the author of numerous
books on the Israeli Palestinian
conflict including his latest which is
called a day in the life of Abid Sal
anatomy of a Jerusalem
tragedy Mr Thor it's good to have you
with us tonight your book it starts with
a traffic accident a Palestinian School
Bus overturns children are killed and
and from there you describe the tragedy
that is the Israelis and the
Palestinians and their conflict what
goes through your mind when when you see
the images of these hospitals in Gaza
now places of healing that are now
places of of suffering and
death you know I've I've never uh felt
this much despair over the future of
Israel Palestine um this is on a scale
that we have not seen before and um it
is a horrific tragedy I mean the the
amount of uh death the amount of
Civilian death um 74% of those killed in
Gaza now are women children and the
elderly and um we need to find a way to
stop this
immediately I want to let our viewers
know you are a Jewish American you've
lived in the US you you now live in
Jerusalem um October 7th the the terror
attacks of that day um did they change
your perception of where it is that you
live right
now absolutely I mean uh you know I
think the
the consequences of October 7th and this
War uh for both societies cannot be
overstated the there this is going to be
a a decades long effect uh of this war
on on both societies and for the first
time in my life you know I can imagine
um civil on civil uh conflict I can
imagine this uh spreading easily to the
West Bank uh it's already we have a huge
surge of of violence of settler violence
in the West Bank over a thousand
Palestinians have been displaced uh just
since October 7th um what what we're
seeing right now is really uh something
we have never seen before in Israel
Palestine and what you what you're
describing there what you fear could
happen that that would be a a a victory
for Hamas wouldn't it the leaders of
Hamas have said that one goal of the
October 7th Terror attacks was to create
a permanent state of War for
Israel yes I mean the the victory for
Hamas will be first of all if they
receive a massive prisoner exchange as
many Israelis are are contemplating uh
doing right now that will have been um a
political victory that no other
Palestinian political party will have
achieved the issue of uh Palestinian
prisoners is something that touches
every Palestinian family even if they
don't have a member of the extended
family in jail now every extended family
has had uh members in jail uh we're
talking about you know 40% of the adult
male population that's been imprisoned
at one time and so uh that would be the
the first victory for Hamas and the
second victory victory for Hamas will
simply to be to survive uh this war and
remain in place Israel is vowing that
that won't be the case I don't know any
serious military analyst who really
believes that uh Hamas will be
eradicated by this war so what we're
looking at in one way or another is a
situation that Israel ends this conflict
very far short of its uh goals Hamas uh
remains in place
and we uh the world remain living with a
situation of uh deep Injustice where 7
million Palestinians 7 million Jews are
all living under Israeli Rule and the
vast majority of those Palestinians are
living without basic civil rights and
that's a situation that has to be
addressed uh when we're thinking about
the day after ending the immediate
Bloodshed in Gaza what would you say
that the the terror attack on October
7th what did it due to the ability to
criticize the Israeli government it its
policies its leaders without being
accused of being
anti-semitic I mean it's made it much
more uh difficult in the west uh and
even in inside of uh Israel you've seen
Israeli journalists you've seen
Palestinian citizens of Israel uh whose
uh Speech has been curtailed and uh and
of course in in Europe and uh the us we
see all kinds of uh voices being
silenced um and and the main tool to
silence them is the accusation of
anti-Semitism um for years uh pro-israel
Advocates have used a a totally
illegitimate uh definition of
anti-semitism that includes things like
uh stating that the the state of Israel
uh is racist and you know the way that
race is used these days it's not the
19th century version of uh you know four
different archetypes of of humanity that
race is used broadly in international
law to include any kind of ethnic or
religious or or racial or other
discrimination and and that kind of
discrimination plainly is practiced uh
by the state of Israel but you're not
allowed to say that without falling uh
in violation of the so-called IH
definition of anti-semitism which is the
international holoc cost remembrance
association's uh definition and that
definition has been spread across Europe
and the United States and made it very
very difficult to speak honestly uh
about what Israel is doing against
Palestinians uh the fact that it is a
form of ethnic domination that is at its
core
discriminatory and uh and this comes at
the expense of the real battle against
uh anti-Semitism which is coming largely
from uh right-wing racists not those who
are trying to defend uh against regimes
of ethnic
domination the Jewish German American
Author Deborah Feldman she lives here in
Germany she wrote a guest commentary
piece that was in today's Guardian
newspaper and in that she writes that
the German government's unconditional
support for Israel allows it to ignore
the way dissenting Jews in Germany are
being thrown under the bus as they are
in Israel I mean do you agree with her
are you would you be thrown under the
bus um in Israel by saying what you're
saying to us um in public
there well I mean you we don't need to
go to hypotheticals we can see that um
Palestinian citizens of Israel were
arrested just a few days ago in
including former members of uh the
knesset the parliament uh for holding a
peaceful attempting to hold a peaceful
demonstration against uh calling for a
ceasefire in Gaza um and we see that you
know know an ultra Orthodox Jewish uh
journalist Israel fry was attacked at
his home uh merely for reciting a prayer
for the dead in Gaza the innocent dead
in Gaza so um it is it is an environment
of extreme hostility and there is a
great deal of desire for vengeance which
uh is being echoed by Israeli leaders
such as the President of Israel who said
that there are no Innocents in Gaza that
the entire population of Gaza should be
held responsible for October 7th uh
which is clearly setting the stage for
the collective punishment uh and death
of thousands of
Innocents let me ask you before we run
out of time um just get your thoughts on
what we we are seeing now across Europe
and in the United States um last weekend
there were some 300,000 people at a pro
Palestine prop Palestinian March in
London it was the largest such
demonstration we've seen since this
conflict broke out but there were also
Hamas bandanas being worn there were
signs reading um no UK politician should
be a friend of Israel and there were
also reports of people chanting from The
River To The Sea um what do you say
about that um there there's there's real
fear that what is happening where you
are is being exported to Europe and the
US in in the form of militant
um islamist goals of violence there as
well what what do you say about
that so I I think we need to uh
disentangle a few of the different
things that were mentioned at this
protest the the chant uh uh first of all
no UK politician should support the
state of Israel or whatever that slogan
said uh there's nothing anti-semitic
about that I mean there are many people
who don't have a racist bone in their
body don't have an anti-Semitic bone in
their body who don't want their
government supporting a decades system
of ethnic Domination by the state of
Israel that's there's nothing
anti-semitic whatsoever about that and
and similarly you know this the the
slogan from uh from The River To The Sea
I mean many many many Palestinians who
support equal rights for all between the
river and the Sea chant this slogan and
and they don't have any kind of
extermination idea behind it they have
no desire to see the Jews even uh leave
to Europe they just want to have
equality so um I think that there is a
very very broad but brush being painted
right now against anyone standing in
solidarity uh with Palestinians and of
course yes if there were uh Hamas uh
posters that's that's something uh
different but I I think as you can see
from the images you're displaying on
this program those are not uh very
prominent as far as I can see author
Nathan thw we appreciate you taking the
time to talk with us and we hope to talk
with you again thank
you thank
you